# Intro
Thank you for taking the time to complete RenewaFi’s engineering assessment. 

This assessment is designed to introduce you to some of the basic concepts in the renewable energy financing space while also providing you ample room to show us how you work. We have tried to be highly considerate of your time by creating an assessment that is straightforward, but not boring. 

This assessment will be the main point of discussion during your final technical interview.

# Time
Four hours should be sufficient to complete this assessment. If, however, you have not completed the project after four hours, either stop and we will evaluate your work based on how far you got or continue and let us know how long it actually took.

If four hours is not enough time for you to finish the project, please do not feel obligated to continue working. That said, do not stop mid thought and leave sloppy code behind. This code doesn't need to scale or be tested, but it should be complete enough that you can stand behind the decisions you did make.

# Process
 1. Clone this repository
 2. Work on the project (feel free to email us with any questions)
 3. Submit your project by emailing a .zip to **daniel@renewafi.com**

# Evaluation
Aim for basics and skip the sticky parts. You are not being evaluated on the number of lines of code you write, but on the quality and economy of what you write to satisfy the challenge.

When you submit your project, we will review it and schedule a 60-minute call to go over your work. On that call, be prepared to talk about
 * Design decisions
 * Data pipelines
 * UX libraries
 * Tests you would write in the future
 * Dependencies
 * Database structures
 * Algorithm design
 * Trade-offs
 * Possible places to expand
 * Observations you may have come across with this data
 * Cool things you're proud of

# Background  
RenewaFi helps connect buyers and sellers of wholesale renewable energy. In this instance, a buyer – “GreenCo” – is considering procuring renewable energy from a proposed solar plant – “Fun in the Sun.” The contract that GreenCo would enter to purchase *Fun in the Sun’s* electricity is called a Power Purchase Agreement (PPA). 

In a PPA, GreenCo would agree to purchase the electricity generated by Fun in the Sun at a fixed price for years into the future. If the market price of electricity is above the fixed price at any given moment over the duration of the contract, GreenCo will make a profit. If, however, the market price is below the fixed price, GreenCo will sustain a loss. 

GreenCo is attempting to understand the potential profitability of entering into a PPA with Fun in the Sun. To do this, GreenCo needs to understand how much electricity Fun in the Sun will generate and what the market price of that electricity might be. 

A key characteristic of renewable energy power plants like Fun in the Sun is that the electricity they generate is intermittent. Their production is reliant on the weather (in this case, sunshine), which on average means that they produce at different levels based on the time of year and time of day. 

To help GreenCo understand the volume of electricity that it expects to generate over time, Fun in the Sun has provided a table called a 12x24. This table has columns for each hour of the day (24) and rows for each month of the year (12). Each cell of the table represents the electricity that Fun in the Sun expects to generate during that hour of an average day in that month. The top left box, for example, indicates the amount of electricity Fun in the Sun expects to generate between 12:00am and 1:00am for each day in January.

GreenCo is considering sending a bid to Fun in the Sun to purchase its energy for [$X] per megawatt hour. RenewaFi wants to help GreenCo understand whether they stand to make money or lose money by entering this bid.  

We can use publicly amiable historical price data at the delivery point where Fun in the Sun will deliver its electricity. Using this data and the 12x24 provided by Fun in the Sun, we can show GreenCo whether its bid would have been profitable over the specified year.  

# The Assignment
Create an app that allows a user at GreenCo to quickly determines whether a bid price would have resulted in a profit or loss for a given year. The app will need to look at the yearly electricity price data at the HB_HOUSTON settlement point, Fun in the Sun’s 12x24 generation profile, and GreenCo’s PPA price bid. 

You will need to use the `generationProfile.csv` included here combined with historical pricing data found [here](https://www.ercot.com/mp/data-products/data-product-details?id=NP4-180-ER).

## Requirements
 - Import historical data for the year 2010-2021 at HB_HOUSTON settlement point (heads up, this is an imperfect dataset)
 - Take a user’s input for PPA price as input
 - Take a user's input for the year they want to know the profit or loss for
 - Write code that sums the profit or loss for each hour in the year specified. This will involve combining the following:
    - $/MWH price for each hour in the year (FYI there are 8760 hours in a year)
    - The quantity of MWHs the 12x24 says will be delivered in that hour
    - The users price and year
- Return the profit or loss for the year and price specified by the user

## Frontend
Your frontend would ideally be a Typescript React app, though if another technology is easier for you then go for that. The command to start this frontend should be included in a separate `README-your-name.md` file. Place your frontend code in `/frontend`.

## Backend
Your backend must be a Python app, though the framework should be whatever you think makes most sense for this project. The command to start this backend and the process to seed the data should be included in a separate ` README-your-name.md` file. Place your backend code in `/backend`.
